The supreme art of war is to subdue the enemy without fighting.
If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles.
Victorious warriors win first and then go to war, while defeated warriors go to war first and then seek to win.
All warfare is based on deception.
In the midst of chaos, there is also opportunity.,
The greatest victory is that which requires no battle.
Appear at points which the enemy must hasten to defend; march swiftly to places where you are not expected.
Strategy without tactics is the slowest route to victory. Tactics without strategy is the noise before defeat.
The wise warrior avoids the battle.
To know your enemy, you must become your enemy.
Move swift as the wind and closely-formed as the wood. Attack like the fire and be still as the mountain.
A leader leads by example, not by force.
He who knows when he can fight and when he cannot will be victorious.
Opportunities multiply as they are seized.
Know yourself and you will win all battles.
What the ancients called a clever fighter is one who not only wins, but excels in winning with ease.
The whole secret lies in confusing the enemy, so that he cannot fathom our real intent.
Engage people with what they expect; it is what they are able to discern and confirms their projections. It settles them into predictable patterns of response, occupying their minds while you wait for the extraordinary moment — that which they cannot anticipate.
When the enemy is relaxed, make them toil. When full, starve them. When settled, make them move.
Treat your men as you would your own beloved sons. And they will follow you into the deepest valley.
In war, the way is to avoid what is strong, and strike at what is weak.
Plan for what is difficult while it is easy, do what is great while it is small.
Great results can be achieved with small forces.
Ponder and deliberate before you make a move.
When strong, avoid them. If of high morale, depress them. Seem humble to fill them with conceit. If at ease, exhaust them. If united, separate them. Attack their weaknesses. Emerge to their surprise.
Build your opponent a golden bridge to retreat across.